>> Brian Holt: Talking
more about conditionals,
let's actually just go
over to our VS Code here.
I think this will be a little bit easier.
>> Brian Holt: So.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's just get rid of that.
There's a couple more
things about conditioners
that I should show you really quick, so
when I was just showing
you if two is not equal to
three than console these are not equal,
right,
or we'll just say like const.age = 25,
and const.
>> Brian Holt: Like ageToDriveARental car.
>> Brian Holt: So in this case you'd
probably have to do something like
ageToDriveARentalCar, whoops.
>> Brian Holt: And this would be 25,
and let's just put this as like 28.
>> Brian Holt: Then here
you would say like,
you are not old enough to drive a car.
>> Brian Holt: All right we
talked a little bit about that.
>> Brian Holt: But yeah, something else
you can do with the not equals two,
which was yeah,
let's just get rid of that example,
so we'll just stick to x and y for us.
I can't think of a real example
off the top of my head.
So if x is not equal to y,
then console.log('these are not equal').
>> Brian Holt: We'll put another
z up there, const z = 11.
So two of them that I did not show you yet
are or
and and, so
if I say if x is equal to y and,
and the way you do and
is with two ampersands
next to each other, and y is equal to z.
>> Brian Holt: Console.log.
>> Brian Holt: These are all equal.
So this is what's called a logical end,
right?
And here, this means, if this is true,
and this is true, then do this, right?
Make sense?
And you can have as many
of these as you want.
>> Brian Holt: Right.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
there's another one called or,
and the way you do that, so if is true,
or x triple equals z,
>> Brian Holt: This is.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and so
this is two pipes, oops, right there,
two pipes next to each other.
>> Brian Holt: So it's gonna ask
the question, if this is true or
this is true then this is going to run.
So in this particular case,
since Is true is true,
despite the fact that this is not true
over here, this will still run, right?
Whereas up here, as soon as it
sees the x is not equal to y,
it's actually not even going
to evaluate the rest of this.
It's just like okay, well,
the first one wasn't true, so
I'm not gonna do that, so
all of them have to be true.
And
>> Brian Holt: You can combine these
using parentheses, so.
>> Brian Holt: Right, so
it's gonna say, if this is true, or
both of these are true, then do this.
Once you start getting into
compound conditions and
this starts getting a lot harder to read,
you should start re-evaluating
what you're trying to do there.
Normally it can be rewritten into a more
simple way either by breaking that into
multiple statements or
just being a little bit more explicit,
but when you start shoving so
much in there it gets really tough to
figure out what the hell is going on.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, any questions?
>> Speaker 2: On line 11, you said if
x doesn't equal y then it's gonna
ignore this stuff to the right.
If you replace the second and
with an or would it still ignore it?
No, the second one.
>> Brian Holt: The second one.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: So if I do this.
>> Speaker 2: Because that should return
true, because if it's true is true.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you know the question
here which I would have to go figure out
is what is the priority of
Compton tutorials here, right?
Is it asking is this and this true?
Is it asking is this or this true?
>> Speaker 2: It enforced
parentheses there.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so
if I put parentheses here.
Do you wannna put parentheses here?
>> Speaker 2: Sure.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so if it does
this then it's going to evaluate this
whole block.
It's gonna find out that this is false and
then it'll evaluate this one.
>> Brian Holt: But so
if I did it like this,
>> Brian Holt: It's going to
evaluate this.
It's gonna see this is not true and
not abide with the second term.
>> Speaker 2: Because it recognizes
that the rest of the stuff is
inside of parentheses and
so it doesn't matter?
>> Brian Holt: Right.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: No matter what, if it see
this is not true and then it sees and
right afterwards it means it doesn't
matter what comes afterwards because
the first term is already false.
>> Speaker 2: But if it does let you
do those same functions in one line,
that seems like it would be bad to
just ignore the stuff on the right,
in case there is an or there.
>> Speaker 2: It's like you said.
I guess the question is,
does it enforce [COUGH] parentheses or
does it let you-
>> Brian Holt: Got you.
It does let you enforce, so
the parentheses will still work.
So is there another one after this right?
>> Brian Holt: And at this point I'd say
you need to refactor your code [LAUGH].
Yeah, this will work for sure cuz it will
evaluate something else at this point.
>> Speaker 2: It will, okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Good question, and you
start getting into these deeper semantics.
There's not really a ton of
point learning what that does.
I know people who disagree with me,
but there's enough stuff in my brain,
like lyrics to 90s songs,
that I just can't afford to lose
anything else up there [LAUGH]